Peter Manning mike--the Russell and
Norman Dunlop are working on the Irish
Fisheries Board tagging program they've
made some incredible discoveries about
the distances that one particular shark
will travel
it's the blue shot and it visits our
coastline on a regular basis and the
guys reckon that if we travel 50 miles
of the Irish coast we'll have a good
chance of finding one
the team has spent most of their lives
out to sea and over the years that
perfected their shark catching technique
first off Peter prepares something to
lure the Sharks in so what you got in
there people's brands and oil brand yes
so they like their brand or they don't
like their brand fix in the morning it
smells absolutely disgusting but
apparently the Sharks just love it and
because of the oil it spreads and
spreads luring in sharks from miles away
Mike uses freshly caught macro as bait
and the biggest hook I've ever seen so
the wires hidden inside the flesh no
what I do is actually grind the barb off
to reasons that gives better penetration
into the Sharks very tough jaw but more
importantly it makes it easier to take
the hook out of the shark when you're
ready to tag and release them I
understand that that's all mood amongst
shark fishes has changed very much from
the the old haul amount and display them
on the shore now to a much more
conservation based approach absolutely
that attitude was prevalent back in the
50s and 60s but it's now gone completely
the other way and rightly so I catch the
fish on the other line
they brought aboard their tagged and
measured and they put back with this tag
in and that's the best way that you can
compile data to in the long term help
protect these fish because we need
information on them we need to know
where they go how long they grow how
fast they grow and we need to know much
more about it we're gonna protect them
in the long run
I'd never seen a blue shot before so I
was really looking forward to that tug
on the line but the one thing I remember
about fishing as a child was the waiting
and the waiting and the waiting
with the weather closing in we were
about to call it a day when Mike
suddenly had a bind okay excellent still
on okay so what's the idea now just keep
warning it in it this week she's gone
very deep okay this is gonna really
stubborn now this week right can you
tell by this sort of the power of it
whether it's any you know sort of size
or well sharks of sharks they're
individuals you never quite know what
you've got until the fishes at the side
of the boat now she's coming up in the
water if you watch the angle of the line
oh yeah yeah that's absolute there's
balloons last thing obviously you don't
the broke the line now there no that's
right is one of the rods bent the fish
is slowly tiring yeah oh I could say
I've seen a flash in the choice of the
color together seen some color yeah
there it is nice blue actually it's
quite a nice blue remember norm it's a
barbless hook they are the most
beautiful colors aren't they though
pure white belly
I've done this kind of thing before with
cattle it's a simple and relatively
painless way of tagging an animal see
how it swings straight down if any of
the tank sharks are caught again the
hope is that the tag is posted back to
Ireland with information on when and
where it was captured in the last 30
years the Irish tagging project has
revealed some startling results one of
the most amazing journeys made by one of
these sharks was an incredible 4000 250
miles all the way to the coast of
Venezuela